recommend formatting this using an ai chat tool

here is the main file, written uninterruptedly. let's start with the boring, sheogorad is a text-based role-playing game powered by artificial intelligence. behind the scenes, it uses a storyteller that ticks the game world and ticks characters based on an in-house motivation system. sheogorad the game revolves around characters. there are two types of characters, player characters and non-playing characters. npcs mostly just have routines, while pcs have a more unhinged tendency to do crazy things. sheogorad uses a very different attribute and skill system. i looked at oblivion and diablo, and prefer the four character attributes of diablo to oblivion which has eight. for the record diablo has strength, dexterity, vitality and energy or magic, where oblivion has strength, intelligence, willpower, agility, speed, endurance, personality and luck. i have nothing against complexity, emergent stuff and stats or numbers, but i think derived stats and simple skills are just better. sheogorad cares about summary understanding, and wants to bring vvardenfell back alive in a new format without being stuck with its statistical models. sheogorad uses temperament for characters, fewer attributes and derives skills using simple additions, subtraction and division. a way to think about it is that it's not boring but simple. that sort of sums up the way sheogorad deals with characters. sheogorad has less spreadsheet tinkering and what i would like to call a more diablo or roguelike feel to it.

in part two i will talk about the funeral that morrowind the game is versus its setting. morrowind gives you a really beautiful look at a dark fantasy island that is really beautiful. guards walk in the distant mist with delayed keyframes showing the cool render technology. the orchestra picks up and every npc appears to have a life. that is what morrowind stood for, people lived on the island. dark elves wanted to live in carapace buildings in ash blasted regions. but the game is rather boring and doesn't give a lot for that. i feel that a high strength character or high intelligence 

i have pondered about low poly maps, tilt shift maps, roguelike maps, and a hexagonal renderer, but think it wouldn't work, i really want that osr browser game era poured into sheogorad. i really want folder dungeon.

therefore the area map would look like so:

WORLD
└── REGION
    └── AREA
        ├── NPC
        ├── MONSTER
        ├── ITEM
        └── OBJECT

i'm not planning an alternate visualization beyond that, although entities may have a semi-hidden positional altitude that the simulation can work with behind the scenes. for now, this means that sheogorad retains the gamebryo interior exterior approach to places. people will be able to hide in their homes, and for the most part homes and other places are separate instances of the simulation. essentially it feels like construction set. i'm not saying no to a minimap or an area map or something else forever. there will be a distance to enemies and objects, people could be in the same area and never meet, but you don't necessarily instantly see these distances.

sheogorad already feels a bit like cookie clicker, with its heavy use of texture and css effects. and i like that. i think rune is a cool twist on the vanilla user interface. i use script fu to batch all images into rune, using a saturation and exclusion texture. it takes about half a minute and you can change the texture using the plugin dialog. rune won't change much, but there is maybe room for canvas stuff or an animation.

so the success with the user interface aside, there is no game. i keep thinking about rolling characters and giving them an incentive using a 100 character textarea, but that's barely a game. instead, having everyone root for a single hero build or neverarine also seems strange, because why are we cheering on some random guy. i know i don't want this to be an rpg. it's more like a windowing experiment and it's a web rpg, not an actual rpg, so it doesn't need player control. so i call for a self-playing simulation that's really moderate, the name sheogorad suggests a crazy world, but i love vvardenfell because it's peaceful, not because it's nut. but that's why there would be servers that are high crazy, and the casual island that is just people getting by.

\the simulation 

if i look at bit more at the simulation idea, i would want trade relations, house politics, empire politics, law making, skirmishes, errands, prophecies, npcs that need food, npcs that hunt or grow crop, people actually living life. but the problem is that it doesn't _do_ anything; we can imagine that people just eat, outside of what is mentioned by the simulation, and that politics are fine. with the speed that the simulation would be running at, maybe not a single aristocrat or politician or noble would want to change the island for others, because as mentioned, everybody just lives fine the way they are. because at insertion at that imperial prison ship as the neravarine the island is already peaceful, dunmer call you outlander, nobody really cares that a self-important high crazy player character arrives to kill ghosts in tombs, loot rings in urns, steals high level armor and goes and do stuff no npc would ever do.

so simulating too much is nonsensical; if the simulation is too good - then it doesn't have to be simulated. because everyone would have food, shelter and live a good life. i can just imply that everyone is fed, sheltered and are fine the way they are. so simulating a complex world that we already know is vvardenfell is a pointless excercise - if the simulation is too good, then it proves that the system is in harmony - if the simulation sucks, then some npcs would get hungry and starve and start traveling elsewhere. because of the shortcomings of the design of plantations, fishers and hunters or egg farms, these npcs would get the incentive to emigrate every time, because the island has no random starting conditions. vvardenfell isn't designed to be a well functioning kingdom with stable politics where everyone has food and something to do. it's mostly a backdrop for the player and has make-believe politics, trade and living conditions.

the sheogorad simulation may not need trade, politics, labor and working infrastructure. maybe it just needs slight npc routines so that it appears that they are eating, but the food isn't necessarily real. as said in the two pagraphs above, the island will lean the same way every time, with the same npcs getting hungry, burnt out and going elsewhere for food. i don't want to make sheogorad the food simulation where the same orcs keep emigrating because they want meat, but spawned in gnaar mok and people only eat fish there - that would happen every time in that deterministic simulation. unhappy orcs, unhappy elves, the same people running away from the shit conditions they suddenly found themselves in.

\player characters

enough complaining about the simulation. the player of sheogorad should be able to unleash a character onto the island of vvardenfell and watch, but also watch other heroes, and essentially read the game. areas have summaries, you can read what happened, but you're not metagaming, since you're not super directly controlling the character with mouse keyboard. so it's one hundred percent decent to say that the player would want to create heroes and watch them. you can watch a character until it dies, then it becomes a death card. and you gain prestige points based on religious and spiritual stuff achieved, combat stuff achieved, and how helpful you were to npcs in the game.

that means that heroes aren't just god bullies who fight to the death, but journey and gain xp from multiple disciplines, not just combat, but also spiritual points. this would tie in with the runes. you gain a rune from achieving a certain set of xp in that class. and you can attach that rune to a new character. but there are no runes in vvardenfell, no physical runes, that's just a death or xp system. you can hold onto runes to unlock better character archetypes. you will also acquire what is essentially good or evil runes through the playthrough. if you were not helpful but a ninja, you gain bad karma, which may be penalized by the character system.

so just to renumerate the past few paragraphs, this is essentially a role-playing game where you die and then use points to improve a new character. if you have a very passive character, you may never die, but there will be a button so you can send him from vvardenfell to another place, essentially also ending the story on a similar "death card".

it costs money to run the simulation, so there will be a maximum number of character slots. there is still stuff to do though while you queue your hero, such as vote on prophecies, political things, and you can follow other people's characters in a transparent way. maybe there will be mild social features, like a favorite button, or you can rate characters. the player can still play the game even though he is not earning prestige or runes on having a character running around in the game world. you can just watch, or speculate, or maybe other such things. there will be menus, and there will be buttons for these things. the rules of sheogorad are explained on stone tablets, so the player can see what there is to do besides rolling heroes and setting them on the island.

\the economy

this section isn't about the simulation, it's about the traders, farmers, fishers, hunters, and where their stuff goes when they sell it. if somebody sells at a tradehouse, they will stockpile that item. fish expire. or the fish seller has too much fish, reduces price, fishers now get less. it's interesting when the npcs react to the economy. but it may be too much for sheogorad. i am not trying to show off - i am trying to make a fun fantasy island, that's interesting to read about. a basic economy is totally cool, and i will have to define the rules that make a vendor want to sell at what price, and at what price the vendor wants to buy from the suppliers.

a simple economy would probably work best. i never set my eyes on an uncomplicated sheogorad. but needless complexity can kill a project. i don't have to set those rules, every coder knows the amount of work. i am not trying to simulate every piece of rice. but economy may make the simulation incredibly interesting - these dudes collect this and these dudes buy that from them to sell to other dudes. that sounds simple, but is actually quite complex. most rpgs don't simulate this stuff! stock is always full, farmers appear to farm, fishers appear to fish, hunters appear to hunt. but there is no actual economy.

if i could get a basic economy to work for sheogorad it would already be big for the project. it would move the world. the npcs. more explanation to come! the economy is a good idea but it may bloat the simulation or kill the vibe, which is opposite of what i want to achieve, which is a fun place that people can observe and interact with.

\red year

the problem i now have is that sheogorad with its runic style is too creepy for og morrowind. so red year is a candidate, or the events following red year. it's a more free setting. i can get rid of npcs i hate, and i can respect canon while still transforming it. red year isn't the end. it's only 11 years after morrowind. a lot of the same npcs can still live there. so everyone can still recognize the game, it's just not the game, it's my game. vvardenfell was peaceful during morrowind, vvardenfell will be rougher during sheogorad.

what red year unlocks for sheogorad is wonderful. i can lean more toward the demon fighting cult of warrior monks this way, which everyone knows i adore. i will talk about esroniet later, and how that can play a role as a monastic order. i can now kind of freely put my ideas for a new morrowind that works with the design ethos and mythos of sheogorad, not against it. in assassins creed origins for example there are other mercenaries out there who are also like crazy npcs. so for sheogorad i want something like that. crazy npcs who are nnpcs or heroes or unbound adventurers, not people who just live on the island and eat fish, but people who are potentially god bullies and die hard.

red year is potentially grim dark. i can kind of cover everything in ash so to speak, which i did with messiah and dark. and it serves the homeland of the dunmer well. the volcano isn't just a source of depression for them, it gives them ebony, glass, saltrice, and other ashland resources. the dunmner live long, living in communities in carapace buildings gives them meaning, because it's the way of the dark elf, with their fire resistance. but for example, wood elves don't live in ald ruhn, maar gan, molag mar, they would live in seyda neen or maybe around the grazelands. different races go different places, not everybody lives on dark soil in giant crab structure. i'm saying this because morrowind was always dark. but now it just got a bit more grim lately.

i will pull as much canon from sources as possible, but will do some stuff freely where i am allowed to speculate. with the rune interface already looking crpg or diablo or ashy this is a good way to show that the world isn't dandy flower but dark. and it fits my post morrowind deppression and morro-gen, in which i admit i don't think morrowind is a good place for a crazy text-based game, because everyone already knows how peaceful it is. instead i need an arena where bad stuff can happen, where war is more frequent, and where uncertainty is more rampant. so for that, red year is the candidate, or slightly after red year. sheogorad is therefore also no longer sheogorad, but more like...redyearorad.

\esroniet

i was thinking of involvement from esroniet. maybe a home base. this is a big dumb idea.

\game design

philosophy aside here are the technicals for sheogorad.

things to do:
- vote on politics, prophecies
- make a character, score other characters
- retire a character
- earn runes and prestige points
- read area summaries, read a catch up report
- track people, track items

things to watch:
- see which artifact gets found
- see which artifact gets bartered from an unknowing tradehouse vendor
- see how karma punishes characters with poor disposition
- see heroes and generic npcs perish
- see economies toil or prosper
- see dramatic events change regions or areas